APPLICATION GUIDELINES 
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT (MEXT) SCHOLARSHIP FOR 2025 

(RESEARCH STUDENTS)   

The  Ministry  of  Education,  Culture,  Sports,  Science  and  Technology  (MEXT)  of  Japan  offers  scholarships  to 
international students who wish to study in graduate courses at Japanese universities as Research Students (either 
regular students or non-regular students) under the Japanese Government (MEXT) Scholarship Program as follows.   

1.  DEFINITION OF “RESEARCH STUDENTS” 
Those who  are  enrolled  in a  master’s  course,  a  doctoral  course,  or  a professional  graduate  course  at  a  graduate 
school,  or  who  are  conducting  research  in  a  specialized  field  at  an  undergraduate  department,  graduate  school, 
institute  attached  to  a  university,  etc.  with  the  aim  of  completing  the  course,  or  who  are  receiving  preparatory 
education in the Japanese language and other subjects prior to placement at the university, etc. (Excluding Young 
Leaders’ Program Students or Teacher Training Students.) 

2.  FIELDS OF STUDY 
Applicants should apply for the field of study they majored in at university or its related field. Moreover, the fields 
of  study  must  be  subjects  which  applicants  will  be  able  to  study  and  research  in  graduate  courses  at  Japanese 
universities.  The  fields  of  study  may  be  restricted  to  particular  fields  by  the  Japanese  Embassy  or  Consulate 
(hereinafter referred to “Japanese diplomatic mission”) in the applicant’s country. 
Traditional  entertainment  arts  such  as  Kabuki  and  classical  Japanese  dances,  or  subjects  that  require  practical 
training in specific technologies or techniques at factories or companies are not included in the fields of study under 
this scholarship program. 
A student who studies medicine, dentistry or welfare science will not be allowed to engage in clinical training such 
as medical care and operative surgery until he/she obtains a relevant license from the Minister of Health, Labor and 
Welfare under applicable Japanese laws. 

3.  QUALIFICATIONS AND CONDITIONS 
MEXT accepts applications from international students for study in Japan who satisfy the following qualifications 
and conditions. Its aim is to foster human resources who will become bridges of friendship between the grantee’s 
country and Japan through study in Japan and who will contribute to the development of both countries and the 
wider world. 
(1) Nationality: Applicants must have the nationality of a country that has diplomatic relations with Japan. An 
applicant who has Japanese nationality at the time of application is not eligible. However, persons with dual 
nationality who hold Japanese nationality and whose place of residence at the time of application is outside of 
Japan are eligible to apply as long as they choose the nationality of the other country and renounce their Japanese 
nationality by the date of their arrival in Japan (the acquisition of student status). The First Screening must be 
conducted at the Japanese diplomatic mission in the country of which the applicant chooses the nationality. 
(2) Age: Applicants, in principle, must have been born on or after April 2, 1990. Exceptions are limited to cases in 
which  MEXT  deems  that  the  applicant  could  not  apply  within  the  eligible  age  limit  due  to  the  situation  or 
circumstances of the applicant’s country (military service obligation, loss of educational opportunities due to 
disturbances  of  war,  etc.)  Personal  circumstances  (financial  situation,  family  circumstances,  state  of  health, 
circumstances  related  to  applicant’s  university  or  place  of  employment,  etc.)  will  not  be  considered  for 
exceptions. 

(3) Academic Background: Applicants must satisfy any one of the following conditions for admission to either a 
master’s or doctoral course at a Japanese graduate school in which they wish to first enroll. (Applicants who 
will certainly satisfy any of the following conditions by the time of enrollment are eligible.) 

(a) Master’s course / Doctoral course (first phase) 

① Applicants who have completed 16 years of school education in countries other than Japan. 
② Applicants  who  have  completed  a  program  with  the  standard  study  period  of  three  years  or  more  at 
universities  or  equivalent  educational  institutions  in  countries  other  than  Japan  and  received  a  degree 
equivalent to a bachelor’s degree. 

③ Other than the above  ① and  ②  conditions, applicants who are eligible for enrollment in a master’s course 

/doctoral course (first phase) at a Japanese graduate school. 

(b) Doctoral course (second phase) 

① Applicants who have been awarded with an overseas degree equivalent to a master’s degree or professional 

degree. 

② Applicants who have graduated from universities and have been involved in research study at universities or 
research centers (including overseas universities and research centers) for two years or more, and recognized 

-  1  - 

 
 
 
 
as having academic competency equivalent to persons with a master’s degree by the graduate school. 

③ Other than the above  ①  and  ②  conditions, applicants who are eligible for enrollment in a doctoral course 

(second phase) at a Japanese graduate school. 

(c)  Doctoral course (faculties of medicine, dentistry, veterinary sciences, and certain parts in pharmaceutical 

fields) 
① Applicants who have completed 18 years of school education in countries other than Japan. 
② Applicants who have completed a program with the standard study period of five years or more at universities 
or equivalent educational institutions in countries other  than Japan and received a degree equivalent to a 
bachelor’s degree. 

③ Applicants who have completed 16 years of school education in countries other than Japan and have been 
involved in research study at universities or research centers (including overseas universities and research 
centers)  for  two  years  or  more,  and  recognized  as  having  academic  competency  equivalent  to  university 
graduates in medicine, dentistry, veterinary sciences or certain parts in pharmaceutical fields by the graduate 
school. 

④ Other than the above  ①,  ②  and  ③  conditions, applicants who are eligible for enrollment in a doctoral 
course (faculties of medicine, dentistry, veterinary sciences and certain parts in pharmaceutical fields) at a 
Japanese graduate school. 

※ For (c) above, you must confirm necessary academic background details on the websites of the universities 
in which you wish to enroll since the academic background needed for admission may vary according to 
university. [For example, (c)-①  stipulates that applicants must graduate from an undergraduate program in 
medicine, dentistry, veterinary or pharmaceutical sciences.] 

(4) Japanese Language: Applicants must be willing to learn Japanese. Applicants must be interested in Japan and 
be willing to deepen their understanding of Japan after arriving in Japan. Applicants must also have the ability 
to do research and adapt to living in Japan. 

(5) Health: Applicants must submit a health certificate in the prescribed format signed by a physician attesting that 

the applicant has no physical or mental conditions hindering the applicant’s study in Japan.       

(6) Arrival in Japan: Applicants must choose and fill in the Application Form either of the following arrival periods 
①  or  ②. In principle, a change in the arrival period is not permitted after the submission of the Application 
Form.   
① April term: In principle, applicants must be able to arrive in Japan between April 1, 2025, and April 7, 2025. 

Departure from the home residence should be on or after April 1, 2025.   

② October  term:  In  principle,  applicants  must  be  able  to  arrive  in  Japan  during  the  period  specified  by  the 
accepting university within two weeks before and after the starting date of the university’s relevant academic 
term (September or October) for that year. 
Excluding cases in which MEXT deems as unavoidable circumstances, the applicant must withdraw from   
this scholarship program if the applicant cannot arrive in Japan by the end of the specified period above   
which is decided by MEXT or the accepting university. If the applicant arrives in Japan not in the   
specified period for personal reasons, travel expenses to Japan will not be paid. 

(7) Visa Requirement: Applicants shall, in principle, newly obtain a “Student” visa at the overseas establishment 

of Japan located in the applicant’s country of nationality, and enter Japan with the status of residence as “Student.”   

    If the applicant resides in Japan exceptionally before acceptance, the applicant must change or renew his/her 
status  of  residence  to  as  “Student”  by  the  end  of  the  month  prior  to  the  installment  of  the  first  scholarship 
payment. 
Even if the applicant originally held a status of residence such as "Permanent Resident" or "Long-term Resident", 
he/she should be aware that the original status might not be necessarily regranted after the expiration of the 
status as a MEXT Scholarship student.   

(8) Non-eligibility: Those who meet any one of the following conditions are ineligible. If identified ineligible after 

being selected as a scholarship student, he/she must withdraw from the scholarship. 
① Those who are military personnel or military civilian employees at the time of their arrival in Japan or during 

the period of the payment of the scholarship; 

② Those  who  cannot  arrive  in  Japan  by  the  last  date  of  the  period  specified  by  MEXT  or  the  accepting 

university; 

③ Those who are previous grantees of Japanese Government (MEXT) scholarship programs (including those 
who withdraw from the scholarship program after acquisition of student status). This does not apply to: those 
who have educational or work experience exceeding more than three years from the following month of the 
period of the previous scholarship to the estimated first month of the payment of this scholarship; and the 
past  grantees  of  Japanese  Studies  Students  program  who  have  graduated  or  are  going  to  graduate  from 
universities in their home countries, Japan-Korea Joint Government Scholarship Program for the Students in 
Science  and  Engineering  Departments  and  Young  Leaders’  Program.  The  Monbukagakusho  Honors 
Scholarship  for  Privately-Financed  International  Students  is  not  included  in  the  Japanese  Government 

-  2  - 

(MEXT) Scholarship Programs; 

④ Those  who  are  currently  also  applying  to  another  program  under  the  Japanese  Government  (MEXT) 
Scholarship  system.  This  includes  the  programs  for  which  scholarship  payments  will  begin  in  FY2024, 
although  their  final  selection  results  have  not  been  decided  yet,  and  the  programs  for  which  scholarship 
payments will begin in FY2025; 

⑤ Those  who  are  already  enrolled  in  a  Japanese  university  or  other  institution  with  a  residence  status  of 
“Student,” or who are to be enrolled, or plan to be enrolled, in a Japanese university or other institution as a 
privately-financed international student from the time of application to the MEXT scholarship program in 
the  applicant’s  country  until  the  commencement  of  the  period  for  payment  of  the  MEXT  scholarship. 
However, this stipulation does not apply to privately-financed international students who, are enrolled, or 
are planning to be enrolled, in a Japanese university or other institution but verifiably complete their studies 
before  the  start  of  the  scholarship  payment  period  and  newly  acquire  the  “Student”  residence  status,  or 
change his/her status to, or renew his/her status as, “Student”. 

⑥ Those who are planning to receive other scholarships or fellowships from Japanese government, a Japanese 

government-related organization and others after the start of the scholarship payment period; 

⑦  Those who are expected to graduate at the time of application and cannot satisfy the condition of academic   

background by the deadline given; 

⑧  Holders of dual nationality at the time of application who cannot verify that they will give up Japanese   

nationality by the time of the arrival in Japan (the acquisition of student status); 

⑨  Those who change their residence status to that of other than “Student” after their arrival in Japan; 
⑩  Those who plan to, from the time of application for the MEXT scholarship program, engage in long-term 
research (such as fieldwork or internship) outside Japan or plan to take a long-term leave of absence from 
the university; 

⑪  Those who have no intention to obtain a degree in Japan; 
⑫  Those who are found to have attempted or actually committed any kinds of cheating prohibited by the   

examiner during the written examination of the First Screening. 

(9) Others: MEXT Scholarship will be granted those who are willing to contribute to mutual understanding between 
Japan and their home country by participating in activities at schools and communities during their study in 
Japan while contributing to the internationalization of Japan. They shall also make efforts to promote relations 
between the home country and Japan by maintaining close relations with the university attended after graduation, 
cooperating  with  the  conducting  of  surveys  and  questionnaires,  and  cooperating  with  relevant  projects  and 
events conducted by the Japanese diplomatic mission after they return to their home countries.     

4.  PERIOD OF SCHOLARSHIP 
(1) Non-regular students:   

① Grantees who arrived in Japan during the April term: The scholarship period will last from April 2025 until 

the end of March 2027. 

② Grantees who arrived in Japan during the October term: The scholarship period will last from September or 

October 2025 until the end of March 2027. 

In  either  case,  the  first  6-month  period  of  scholarship  will  be  a  term  of  preparatory  education  of  Japanese 
language (hereinafter referred to “the preparatory education”) for those who require such education. In cases of 
arrival  in  Japan  in  other  months  than  those  specified  above,  MEXT  will  decide  the  period  of  scholarship 
separately. 
(Note) If the university term begins (and the student status is acquired) in the middle of the month, the 

scholarship will not be paid for that month.   

  (ex.) The scholarship payments will begin in October 2025 if the university’s autumn term starts after   

September 2, 2025. 

(2) Regular students enrolled in master’s, doctoral, or professional graduate courses: 

Regardless of the date of arrival, the scholarship period shall be the necessary period for the completion of the 
respective  regular  course  (hereinafter  referred  to  “the  standard  period  of  study”.  See  “13.  ACADEMIC 
PATHWAY FOR RESEARCH STUDENTS” for the standard period of study at each course). In only those 
cases where the accepting university deems that preparatory education is necessary for conducting research in a 
specialized field, a 6-month preparatory education period will be added prior to the regular degree course. 

5.  EXTENSION OF PERIOD OF SCHOLARSHIP 
Non-regular  students  advancing  to  a  regular  degree  course  in  a  graduate  school  as  a  regular  student,  or  regular 
students in a master’s or professional graduate course wishing to proceed to a doctoral course, with outstanding 
academic achievement that meets certain criteria may apply for extension of the scholarship period for advanced 
study and may have the scholarship period extended upon a successful examination by MEXT. Followings are some 
points to note: 

-  3  - 

   
 
① The extension of the scholarship period will be permitted only if the successful student has passed an entrance 
examination  for  a  regular degree  course  at  a  graduate  school  in which  they  wish  to  enroll  and  expresses 
his/her intention to enroll in the course. 

② Non-regular students cannot extend the scholarship period as they stay in non-regular courses. 
③ Students  who  are  admitted  to  advanced  courses  without  receiving  approval  for  the  extension  of  the 
scholarship period for advanced study cannot be granted the extension of the scholarship period. (In such 
cases, it is possible for the students to be enrolled in advanced courses as a privately-financed student.) 

6.  SCHOLARSHIP BENEFITS 
(1) Allowance: The amounts listed below shall be paid depending on the course enrolled in. A supplemental regional 
allowance of 2,000 yen or 3,000 yen per month will be added to the monthly scholarship amount for the grantees 
studying  or  conducting  research  in  specially  designated  regions.  Due  to  the  situation  of  the  Japanese 
Government’s budget, the amount of payment may be subject to change each fiscal year. If a grantee is absent 
from the university for an extended period, the scholarship shall be suspended for that period. 
① Students receiving the preparatory education and non-regular students: 143,000 yen per month 
② Regular students enrolled in master’s or professional degree courses: 144,000 yen per month 
③ Regular students enrolled in doctoral courses: 145,000 yen per month.   

(2) Education fees: Fees for the entrance examination, matriculation, and tuition at universities will be paid by 
MEXT. The entrance examination fee, however, will be borne by the grantees if they cannot proceed to the 
master’s or doctoral course or cannot be admitted by the university. 

(3) Traveling Expenses 
①  Transportation to Japan: MEXT will stipulates the travel schedule and route, and provides an airline ticket to 
grantees who will arrive in Japan during the specified period stated in “3. (6) Arrival in Japan”. The airline ticket 
will be an economy-class ticket for the flight from the international airport closest to the grantee’s residence (in 
principle, the country of nationality) to an international airport in Japan used on the normal route to the accepting 
university. The grantee shall bear at his/her own expense all costs related to domestic travel from the grantee’s 
residence to the nearest international airport, airport taxes, airport usage fees, special taxes necessary for travel, 
travel  expenses within  Japan  (including  airline  transit  costs),  travel  insurance  expenses,  carry-on  luggage  or 
unaccompanied baggage expenses, etc. The grantee shall also bear at his/her own expense for travel and lodging 
costs incurred in a third country in case(a) the grantee must travel to a third country on the way to Japan for visa 
purposes because there are no Japanese diplomatic missions in his/her country or because Japanese diplomatic 
missions in his/her country are temporally closed, or (b) there are no direct flights from the grantee’s country of 
nationality  to  Japan.  In  such  cases,  MEXT  will  provide  an  economy-class  airline  ticket  from  the  grantee’s 
country of nationality to the said third country, and from the third country to an international airport in Japan 
used on the normal route to the accepting university. In principle, the address given in the space for “Current 
address” on the application form shall be recognized as the “residence.” However, if the grantee plans to move 
within his/her country of nationality after application, the address given in the space for “Your address before 
departure for Japan” on the application form shall be recognized as the “residence”) and the airline ticket will 
be arranged for a flight from the international airport nearest to that address. Except for cases when the grantee 
must travel to a third country to obtain a visa, MEXT will not provide an airline ticket for cases of travel to 
Japan from a country other than the grantee’s country of residence due to the grantee’s personal circumstances. 
If a grantee will arrive in Japan before or after the specified period stated in “3. (6) Arrival in Japan”, travel 
expenses will not be paid. 

②  Transportation from Japan: Based on the application by the grantee, MEXT will provide an airline ticket to 
grantees who  shall  graduate  the  accepting  university  and  return  to  the  home  country  by  the  end  of  the  final 
month  of  the  period  of  scholarship  (See “4.  PERIOD OF  SCHOLARSHIP”) designated  by  MEXT.  MEXT 
shall provide an economy-class airline ticket from the international airport in Japan used for the normal route to 
and from the accepting university to the international airport (in principle, in the country of nationality) nearest 
to the returning grantee’s residence. The grantee shall bear at his/her own expense all costs related to travel from 
the grantee’s residence in Japan to the nearest international airport, airport taxes, airport usage fees, special taxes 
necessary  for  travel,  travel  expenses within  the  country  of  nationality  (including  airline  transit  costs),  travel 
insurance expenses, carry-on luggage or unaccompanied baggage expenses, etc. If a grantee returns to the home 
country  before  the  end  of  period  of  scholarship  due  to  personal  circumstances,  or  reasons  stated  in  “7. 
SUSPENSION OF PAYMENT OF SCHOLARSHIP”, MEXT will not pay for the returning travel expenses. 
If a grantee continues to stay in Japan after the scholarship period has ended (ex. proceeding to further education 
or being employed in Japan, continuing to register at the university), travel expenses for a temporary return will 
also not be paid. 

-  4  - 

 
 
 
 
7.  SUSPENSION OF PAYMENT OF SCHOLARSHIP 
Payment of the scholarship will be cancelled for the reasons given below. Should any of the following reasons apply, 
the  grantee  may  be  ordered  to  return  a  part  of,  or  all  of,  the  scholarship  paid  up  to  that  time.  Payment  of  the 
scholarship may also be stopped during the period up to the decision on the disposition of the matter.   

① A grantee is determined to have made a false statement on his/her application; 
② A grantee violates any article of his/her pledge to the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and 

Technology; 

③ A grantee violates any Japanese laws and is sentenced and imprisoned for an indefinite period or for a period 

exceeding 1 year; 

④ A  grantee  is  suspended  from  his/her  university  or  preparatory  educational  institution  or  receives  other 
punishment, or is removed from enrollment; as a disciplinary action in accordance with school regulations 
of the accepting institution; 

⑤ It has been determined that it will be impossible for a grantee to complete the course within the standard 
period of study because of poor academic grades or suspension or absence from the university or preparatory 
educational institution; 

⑥ A grantee came to Japan without newly obtaining a “Student” visa, or changed his/her status of residence to 

something other than “Student” after entering into Japan; 

⑦ A  grantee  has  received  another  scholarship  (a  scholarship  or  fellowship  from  Japanese  government,  a 
Japanese government-related organization and others) not approved for acceptance in conjunction with the 
MEXT Scholarship; 

⑧ A grantee proceeds to a more advanced level of education without receiving approval for an extension of the 

period of the scholarship. 

8. THE PROCESS OF APPLICATION AND SELECTION 
The following chart indicates the whole process from the call for applications, selection and final results. See the 
following Section 9. to 12. for more details. 

Around   
Apr.   
2024 

Call for applications opens at each 
Japanese diplomatic 
mission/Submission of application 
documents 

Around Jun. 
2024 

Until   
Aug. 9,   
2024 

↓ 

First screening 

↓ 

Request a provisional acceptance to 
Japanese universities 

↓ 

Around mid 
Sep. 2024   

Submission a Placement Preference 
Application Form 

From   
Oct. 2024 

↓ 
Second screening and university 
placement 
↓ 

Jan     

to Feb 2025 

Notification of results of selection and 
university placement 

-  5  - 

<Notes> 

  The  deadline  for  submission  of  application 
documents varies according to each Japanese 
diplomatic  mission.  Make  sure  to  confirm 
the  deadline  at  the  website  of  Japanese 
diplomatic  mission  in  the  country  of  your 
nationality or in some other way. 

  The  dates  for 
notification  of 
according 
mission. 

the  first  screening  and 
results  vary 
screening 
to  each  Japanese  diplomatic 

  Applicants who pass the first screening shall 
directly  contact  Japanese  universities  in 
which  they  wish  to  enroll  and  request 
provisional acceptance. 

  Applicants who pass the first screening shall 
submit  a  completed  Placement  Preference 
Application Form to the Japanese diplomatic 
mission. The deadline for submission of this 
form  varies  according  to  each  Japanese 
diplomatic mission. 

  MEXT  conducts  second  screening  and 

university placement. 

  Applicants  who  pass  the  second  screening 
and  have  an  accepting  university  will  be 
accepted  as  a  MEXT  Scholarship  grantee. 
Results  are  notified  to  applicants  via  the 
Japanese diplomatic mission. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  APPLICATION DOCUMENTS 
Applicants must submit the following documents to the Japanese diplomatic mission in the country of the applicant’s 
nationality by the designated deadline. The submitted documents will not be returned. 

No. 

Documents 

1

o
r
i
g
i
n
a
l

2

c
o
p
i
e
s

Remarks 

①  Application Form 

○  ○  Use the 2025 Application Form. (See Note 4.) 

② 

Placement Preference Application 
Form 

○ 

Use the 2025 form. 

③  Field of Study and Research Plan    ○  ○  Use the 2025 form. (See Note 5.) 

④ 

Academic transcript for all academic 
year of university attended 

○  ○ 

⑤ 

Certification of graduation or 
degree certificate of the university 
attended 
Recommendation letter from the 
president/dean or the academic 
advisor at the current or last 
university attended 
⑦  Medical certificate 

⑥ 

⑧  Abstracts of theses 

⑨  Certificate of language proficiency 

⑩ 

⑪ 

Recommendation letter from the 
present employer 
Photograph(s) showing applicant's 
own works of art or a digitally 
recorded media of musical 
performance 

A transcript issued either by the university attended 
or by the applicant's national government. (See Note 
6.) 
If the applicant has not yet graduated, submit a 
certificate of prospective graduation from the 
university. (See Note 7.) 

○  ○ 

○  ○  Free format. A sample format is available. 

○  ○  Use the 2025 certificate form. (See Note 8.) 
●  ●  Submit if the applicant has written theses. (See Note 

● 
(3 copies) 

9.) 
Only in case the applicant has documents attesting to 
competency in Japanese or English; submit 3 copies. 
No original document necessary. The date of issue of 
the certificates should be no earlier than two years 
from the date of application to the Japanese 
diplomatic mission. (See Note 10.)   
●  ●  Submit if the applicant is currently employed. (Free 
format. A sample format is available.) 

●  ●  Submit if the applicant is to major in fine arts or 

music. 

(Note 1)  Documents  indicated  by  the  white  circle  (○)  must  be  submitted  by  all  the  applicants.  Documents 

indicated by the black circle (●) should be submitted only if applicable. 

(Note 2)  These documents must be written in Japanese or English, or translation in either of these languages should 

be attached. 

(Note 3)  Ensure that there is no missing information in the application form when printing out. Write the document 
number, from  ①  to  ⑪ (refer to the numbers in the table above) in the upper right-hand corner of the 
first page for all the documents. 

(Note 4)  The applicant’s photograph to be attached to the Application Form should be of clear quality, taken within 
six months of submission, and printed on paper specially for photographs. The photograph should be 4.5 
x 3.5 cm. upper-body, full-faced, no hats. Please write applicant’s name and nationality on the back of the 
photograph. The photograph data can be pasted to the Application Form and printed out. 

(Note 5)  The sheet of Field of Study and Research Plan should describe the applicant’s past and present field of 
study and research theme and plan in Japan as it will serve as an important reference for placement of the 
applicant to a university. 

(Note 6)  Applicants must submit the following documents according to his/her academic background: 

(a) Applicants who have already graduated from a university’s undergraduate program: an academic 

transcript of the program; 

(b) Applicants  who  have  already  completed  a  degree  program  at  a  graduate  school:  academic 

transcripts of both the undergraduate and the graduate programs;   

(c)  Applicants who are pursuing an undergraduate degree: an academic transcript that covers from the 
year of enrollment to the term for which grades have been determined at the time of application for 

-  6  - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
the scholarship; 

(d) Applicants who are pursuing a graduate school degree: an academic transcript of the undergraduate 
program and an academic transcript of the degree program at the graduate school that covers from 
the year of enrollment to the term for which grades have been determined at the time of application 
for the scholarship. 

The academic transcripts should show the grade scale applied and the grades earned by the applicant in 
all the subjects studied for each year of study at the course attended. A degree certificate or a certificate 
simply showing the ranking of the applicant at the time of graduation will not substitute for academic 
transcripts. Those who are pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree must also submit a transcript to 
the Japanese diplomatic mission when he/she graduates from that program by the time selection results 
are finalized. 

(Note 7)  Applicants must submit the following documents according to his/her academic background: 

(a) Applicants who have already graduated from a university’s undergraduate program: a certificate of 

graduation from the undergraduate program; 

(b) Applicants who have already completed a graduate school degree: certificates of graduation from 

both the undergraduate and graduate programs; 

(c)  Applicants who are pursuing an undergraduate degree: a certificate of prospective graduation from 

the undergraduate program; 

(d) Applicants who are pursuing a graduate degree: a certificate of graduation from the undergraduate 
program and a certificate of prospective graduation from the degree program at the graduate school. 
A copy of the graduation certificate or the degree certificate is acceptable if the copy is attested by an 
authorized official of the university. (Do not submit the originals as the submitted documents will not be 
returned.) Those who are pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree must also submit a certificate of 
graduation  to  the  Japanese  diplomatic  mission  when  he/she  graduates  from  that  program  by  the  time 
selection results are finalized. 

(Note 8)  If the applicant’s health condition changes (including any serious changes relating to his/her life plan) 
after  he/she  has  submitted  his/her  health  certificate,  the  applicant  needs  to  promptly  share  such 
information with the Japanese diplomatic mission since it concerns the acceptance system of the accepting 
university and Japanese medical institution. 

(Note 9)  For abstracts of the theses, abstracts of the graduation thesis and any presented papers will be acceptable. 
These abstracts will be used as basic data for evaluation of the applicant’s academic ability. Make sure 
the applicant’s name is on the first page of the abstracts. 

(Note  10)  Only  if  you  have  a  completed  certificate  document  of  Japanese-language  ability  or  English-language 
ability  that  show  your  name  and  level/score,  enter  necessary  information  in  “21.  Japanese  language 
qualifications” and “22. English language qualifications” of the Application Form and submit a copy of 
the certificate. If printing out the certificate from the Internet, print out and submit a page showing the 
applicant’s name and the details of the relevant qualification (level, score, etc.). The date of issue of the 
certificate should be no earlier than two years from the date of application (“Date of application” entered 
on the last page of the application form) to the Japanese diplomatic mission. 

10.  FIRST SCREENING 
(1) The Japanese diplomatic missions will conduct the First Screening of applicants by means of examination of 

submitted application documents, written examinations of language proficiency and interviews. 

(2) The subjects of written examinations of language proficiency will be Japanese and English. Both subjects must 
be taken by all applicants. The result of the Japanese language examination will be used as reference for the 
Japanese-language  preparatory  education  to  be  provided  after  the  grantee’s  arrival  in  Japan.  Moreover,  the 
English proficiency test may be exempted for countries where English is the official language. Applicants must 
follow guidance by the overseas diplomatic establishment of their national origin. 

(3) The following policy will apply to each stage of screening: 

① Examination of submitted application documents: Must show that the applicant’s academic achievement at 
the university that he/she last graduated from equaled to or exceeded a certain level, and state the applicant’s 
research plan in a detailed and concrete manner; 

② Written examination of language proficiency: Must show language proficiency adequate for research in a 

Japanese university;   

③ Interview: Must reveal that the applicant has a clear sense of purpose relating to his/her study in Japan and 
has gathered information about Japanese universities. The interview must also reveal that the applicant has 
sufficient Japanese or English language ability to communicate with his/her academic advisor in Japan. If 
the applicant desires to study a subject that requires advanced Japanese language proficiency, the interview 
must show that the applicant has a considerable degree of Japanese language proficiency. 

(4) The date and time of the notification of the results of the First Screening will be specified separately by the 

-  7  - 

 
Japanese diplomatic missions in the applicant’s country; the reasons for the results of the screening will not be 
disclosed. Those who pass the First Screening will not necessarily be selected as the MEXT Scholarship grantees. 
(5) The results of the First Screening will be used as reference for the Second Screening and the university placement. 

11.  REQUEST OF PROVISIONAL ACCEPTACE AND SUBMISSION OF A PLACEMENT FORM 
(1) A letter of provisional acceptance will greatly influence final selection results. Applicants may be rejected if 
they have not obtained any such letter. Applicants who have passed the First Screening should, therefore, ask 
universities they wish to attend to issue letters of provisional acceptance. 

(2) Applicants who have passed the First Screening shall directly contact the Japanese universities they wish to 
enter after the notification of the First Screening results by Friday, August 9, 2024 (Japan time) in order to 
request the issuance of letters of provisional acceptance as a regular or a non-regular student in graduate school. 
Applicants should be aware the following notes. 
① The number of universities which can be filled in the  ②Placement Preference Application Form is up to 
three  universities.  The  applicants  can,  however,  obtain  up  to  a  maximum  of  two  letters  of  provisional 
acceptance. Do not obtain more than two letters of provisional acceptance. 

② Applicants can contact up to a maximum of two universities at the same time. Do not contact more than two 
universities at the same time. If, however, they have received a rejection from one of the universities and 
thus they have been waiting for reply from less than two universities, then they can newly contact another 
university for request a letter of provisional acceptance. 

③ If Applicant is rejected by an university, he/she should neither request an acceptance letter from another 

faculty member or graduate school at that university, nor lodge an objection to the university. 

④ A contact with universities requesting issuance of a letter of provisional acceptance made on Saturday, 

August 10, 2024 or after is not permitted.   

⑤ Since the above “Friday, August 9, 2024 is not the deadline for the universities to issue a letter of provisional 
acceptance, applicants must not urge the universities for the issuance. However, applicants may confirm with 
the university if the scheduled time of the issuance is delayed. In addition, applicants should keep it in mind 
when scheduling request letters of provisional acceptance that universities generally need one month to issue 
a letter of provisional acceptance. 

⑥ Applicants should first contact the division of international student affairs at the university (not an academic 
advisor you wish to be supervised by) to request a letter of provisional acceptance. (MEXT will inform the 
divisions of international student affairs beforehand that applicants who have passed the first screening may 
contact them.) The Japanese diplomatic mission can provide a list of contact information. 

⑦ The information on useful websites to search Japanese universities and researchers are also available from 

the Japanese diplomatic mission.   

(3) When requesting universities for issuance of a letter of provisional acceptance, applicants must submit directly 

to universities the following documents (a) and (b).   
(a) Copy of a Passing Certificate of the First Screening issued by the Japanese diplomatic mission 
(b) A set of copies of the following documents submitted to the Japanese diplomatic mission among the “9. 
APPLICATION DOCUMENTS” that have been stamped by the Japanese diplomatic mission and returned 
to the applicants 
①  Application Form 
③  Field of Study and Research Plan 
④  Academic transcript for all academic year of university attended 
⑤  Certificate of graduation or degree certificate of the university attended 
⑥  Recommendation letter from the president/dean or the academic advisor at the current or last university 

attended 

⑦ Medical Certificate 
⑧  Abstracts of theses (*Only if submitted to the Japanese diplomatic mission) 
⑨  Certificate of language proficiency (*Only if submitted to the Japanese diplomatic mission) 
⑩  Recommendation  letter  from  the  present  employer  (*Only  if  submitted  to  the  Japanese  diplomatic 

mission) 

⑪  Photograph(s)  showing  applicant’s  own  works  of  art  or  a  digitally  recorded  media  of  musical 

performance (*Only if submitted to the Japanese diplomatic mission) 

Applicants must submit any other necessary documents requested by universities. Do not submit“  ②Placement 
Preference Application Form” to the universities.   
The above documents (a) and (b) should be sent by e-mail, but in cases when it is difficult to access the Internet, 
the documents may be sent by postal mail. Please make sure each document  ①,  ③  to  ⑪  have been stamped, 
and  that  all  lettering  and  photographs  are  clear  and  legible.  Please  also  note  that  if  a  copy  of  the  Passing 
Certificate of the First Screening is not submitted, the university cannot comply with the request to issue a letter 

-  8  - 

 
of provisional acceptance.   

(4) Applicants must always report the response from the universities and submit the final Placement Preference 
Application Form based on the responses from the universities and obtained letters of provisional acceptance to 
the Japanese diplomatic mission by the specified deadline. It is not allowed to fill in the Placement Preference 
Application  Form  the  names  of  universities  or  supervisors  and  all  departments  at  the  universities  that  have 
declined the applicant’s request. 

(5) Applicants should confirm carefully with the universities the period of arrival in Japan specified in the letter of 
provisional acceptance because it is not permitted, in principle, to change the specified period of arrival even if 
the applicants have stated in their Application Forms that they were able to arrive in either for the April term or 
the October term. 

(6) Forms other than those specified by MEXT for the letter of provisional acceptance will not be accepted. If a 
university issues a letter of provisional acceptance in a different format, the applicant should promptly contact 
the university and request that the university issue the letter in the MEXT-specified format. 

12.  SECOND SCREENING AND UNIVERSITY PLACEMENT 
(1) MEXT conducts the Second Screening based on the results of the First Screening conducted by the Japanese 
diplomatic mission in the applicant’s country, and selects the applicants as the MEXT Scholarship Students as 
long as their placement to universities have been decided.   
An  application  may  be  rejected  if  it  arouses  proliferation  concerns  including  those  over  weapons  of  mass 
destruction (WMD) and related items. 

(2) An applicant who successfully passes the Second Screening will, in principle, be placed at the university from 
which the applicant has received a letter of provisional acceptance. MEXT will hold consultations with the three 
preferred universities listed in the applicant’s Placement Preference Application Form and place the applicant 
at the university that approves the admittance as result of the consultation.   
In case that the applicant’s preferences include a private or non-national public university as well as a national 
university, the applicant’s preference order specified in his/her Placement Preference Application Form may not 
be  met  due  to  restrictions  on  the  Japanese  government’s  budget,  and  the  option  of  national  university  is 
prioritized regardless.   

(3)  Applicants  who  receive a  letter  of  provisional  acceptance  to  the  regular  course  at  a  graduate  school  will  be 

directly placed in the said regular course without going through the period of the non-regular student.   

(4) If an applicant is judged by the accepting university, based on the results of the written examination of language 
given  in  the  First  Screening,  not  to  have  adequate  Japanese  language  proficiency  to  understand  lectures  or 
research guidance for experiments or practical training at the university, the applicant will be placed in a course 
of Japanese-language preparatory education at an institution designated by the accepting university or MEXT 
for the first six-month period after the arrival in Japan. Upon completion of the Japanese language course, the 
grantee will enter the accepting university for advanced education. 

(5) If a grantee is deemed by the accepting university to have sufficient Japanese language proficiency to conduct 
research, the grantee may directly enter the accepting university as a regular student or a non-regular student. 
(6) Applicants will be notified by the Japanese diplomatic mission of the final selection results and the grantees’ 
accepting university from January 2025 to February 2025. The reasons for the results of the final selection will 
not be disclosed. Any objections to the decision on the university placement will not be accepted. 

13.  ACADEMIC PATHWAY FOR RESEARCH STUDENTS 
The following chart indicates possible academic pathway as a MEXT Scholarship Research Student. 

A

r
r
i
v
a
l

i
n

J
a
p
a
n

Preparatory 
education 

→  Non-regular 
students 

⇒  Regular students   
in Master’s course 

⇒  Regular students 
in Doctoral course 

…  Com-
pleted 

…  Completed 

⇒  Regular students 
in Doctoral course 

…  Completed 

→  Regular students 
in Master’s course 

⇒  Regular students 
in Doctoral course 

…  Completed 

…  Completed 

→  Regular students 
in Doctoral course 

…  Completed 

-  9  - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A

r
r
i
v
a
l

i
n

J
a
p
a
n

Non-regular 
students 

⇒  Regular students 
in Master’s course 

⇒  Regular students 
in Doctoral course 

…  Completed 

…  Completed 

⇒  Regular students 
in Doctoral course 

…  Completed 

Regular students   
in Master’s course 

⇒  Regular students 
in Doctoral course 

…  Completed 

…  Completed 

Regular students   
in Doctoral course 

…  Completed 

※ “Master’s course” includes a 
professional degree course. 

※ “Completed” means his/her 

status as a MEXT Scholarship 
student has ended upon 
successful completion of the 
last course attended. 

(1)  In  the  above  chart,  the  single-lined  arrow  →  indicates  that  the  application  for  extension  of  the  scholarship 
period is unnecessary. The double-lined arrow  ⇒  indicates that the application for extension of the scholarship 
period will be necessary to proceed to a higher program. Extension of the scholarship period will be permitted 
only if the successful student has passed an entrance examination for a regular degree program at a graduate 
school. (See “5. EXTENSION OF PERIOD OF SCHOLARSHIP”.) 

(2) While the entrance examinations to graduate school vary depending on universities, assessment of the applicant’s 
foreign  language  competence,  grasp  of  the  specialized  subject  for  study,  plans  for  the  graduation  thesis, 
interview, etc. are normally included.   

(3) The degree courses at the university’s graduate schools under the Japanese school system include as follows. 

① Master's degree course: The standard period of study is two years subsequent to graduation from a university. 
In some courses, the duration is less than two years but more than one year. Students who complete a master’s 
degree course are awarded a Master’s Degree. 

② Doctoral degree course: A three-year degree course subsequent to completion of a master’s degree course. 
In  the  fields  of  medicine,  dentistry  and  veterinary  science,  and  pharmacy  which  is  based  on  a  6-year 
undergraduate course, most of the universities offer only 4-year doctoral courses. Applicants are required to 
have completed 18 years of school education. Students who complete a doctoral degree course are awarded 
a Doctoral Degree.   

③ Professional degree course: A course at a professional graduate school. The standard period of study is two 
years.  In  some  fields  of  study,  the  duration  is  less  than  two  years  but  more  than  one  year.  Student  who 
complete  a  professional  degree  course  are  awarded  a  Professional  Degree.  Graduate  law  schools  offer  a 
three-years course and students who complete the course are also awarded a Professional Degree (so-called 
a Juris Doctor). 

14. UNAVOIDABLE CIRCUMSTANCES 
In  the  event  of  unavoidable  or  unforeseen  circumstances,  Japanese  Government  reserves  the  right  to  change  or 
cancel the arrival date, scholarship, and contents of the application guidelines here within, at any time before or 
after notification of the results of the final selection. 
Unavoidable Circumstances are defined as events whose effects could not reasonably be prevented or controlled by 
MEXT  or  Ministry  of Foreign Affairs  (including  Embassies  and Consulate  generals of  Japan)  including  but  not 
limited to acts of God, acts of government (including local government, hereafter referred to as government), acts 
of government authorities (including limitations on travel or immigration enacted by the Japanese government or 
other foreign countries’ government due to the event of infectious disease), compliance with law, regulations or 
orders,  fire,  flooding  and  torrential  rain,  earthquakes,  acts  of  war  (regardless  of  a  declaration  of  war),  revolt, 
revolution or rebellion, strike, or lockout. 

15.  NOTES 
(1) The grantees should learn, before departing for Japan, the Japanese language and acquire information about 
Japanese weather, climate, customs, university education, and conditions of the university to attend in Japan, as 
well as about the difference between the Japanese legal system and that of his/her home country.   

(2) As the first installment of the scholarship payment will be made from one month to one and a half months after 
the  grantee’s  arrival  in  Japan,  the  grantee  is  recommended  to  bring  at  least  approximately  US$2,000  with 
him/her to Japan to cover immediate living expenses and other necessary expenses. 

(3) The scholarship payments will be transferred to the bank account of Japan Post Bank (JP Bank) opened by each 

grantee after the arrival in Japan. MEXT will not transfer the scholarship payments to other account.   

-  10  - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4) Grantees who have tested positive for infectious diseases including tuberculosis following a medical exam must 
be treated before arrival in Japan. Grantee’s arrival in Japan will not be approved if he/she is not fully recovered 
by the time of arrival. 

(5) Grantees must enroll in National Health Insurance (Kokumin Kenko Hoken) upon arrival in Japan. 
(6) It is suggested that grantees acquire a “Individual Number Card (My Number Card)” upon arrival in Japan. 
(7) Accommodations: 

①  Residence halls for international students provided by universities: Some universities have residence halls 
for international students. The grantees enrolled at such universities may reside at these residence halls under 
certain conditions. However, due to the limited number of rooms, some of these facilities may be unavailable. 
Expenses  relating  to  accommodations  will  be  borne  by  the  grantee.  As  some  universities  might  ask  the 
grantees to pay expenses relating to accommodations in advance of arriving in Japan, grantees should check 
with the accepting university after its decision on their acceptance. 

② Private boarding houses or apartments: Those who are unable to find accommodation in the aforementioned 
facilities may live in  regular dormitories of  the university or in private boarding houses/apartments with 
his/her expenses. It is difficult for grantees with dependents (spouse and children) to find appropriate housing 
in  Japan.  The  grantee  is  requested  to  arrive  in  Japan  alone  first  to  secure  housing  before  having  his/her 
dependents come to Japan. 

(8)  Information  regarding  the  MEXT  Scholarship  Students  (name,  gender,  date  of  birth,  nationality,  accepting 
university/graduate  school/undergraduate  school,  field  of  specialty,  period  of  enrolment,  career  path  after 
completion of scholarship, contact information [address, telephone number, e-mail address]) may be shared with 
other  relevant  government  organizations  for  the  purpose  of  utilization  for  international  students  programs 
implemented  by  the  Japanese  Government  (support  during  period  of  study  in  Japan,  follow-up  survey, 
improvement of the international student system).   
Information regarding MEXT Scholarship Students (excluding date of birth and contact information) may be 
included  in  publicity  materials  prepared  by  the  Japanese  Government  for  promoting  the  acceptance  of 
international students in Japan, particularly in order to introduce former MEXT Scholarship Students who are 
playing active roles in countries around the world.   
These matters are included in the Pledge stipulating rules and regulations which MEXT Scholarship Students 
must comply with and submit when they have been granted the Scholarship. Those who consent to this treatment 
will be admitted as MEXT Scholarship Student. 

(9) In principle, receiving another scholarship from an organization (including a government organization of the 
home  country)  other  than  the  Japanese  government  (MEXT  or  other  Japanese  government  organization)  is 
permitted. However, applicants should consult with the Japanese diplomatic mission in the home country in 
advance, since some scholarships may not be combined. 

(10) If an applicant is judged not to meet the conditions for landing in Japan, he/she may be rejected. 
(11) The English texts attached to the Application Guidelines and the Application Form are for complementary use 

only. English expressions do not change the Japanese content. 

(12)  If  there  are  any  questions  about  the  content  of  the  written  text  in  this  Application  Guidelines  or  any  other 
matters, applicants/grantees should inquire the Japanese diplomatic mission in the country of the applicant’s 
nationality and follow their instructions. 

(13) In addition to the regulations stipulated in this Application Guidelines, those that are necessary to implement 

the Japanese Government Scholarship programs shall be determined by the Japanese Government. 

-  11  - 

